OK,
guys.
Now we've added a hyperlink to each of our tabs.
What we're gonna do is find a quick way to get back to the index once would followed one of
the hyperlinks.
Now you'll probably know that you can use the back button just up here the undue which will
effectively do exactly the same thing and take you straight back to your index from whence
you came.
But what we're going to do is have a look at adding a macro to do precisely that.
Now,
at the moment at the top across your ribbon,
you may have the developer tab or you may not know if you do fantastic there with me.
A second will come back to you in a second.
But if you don't have the developer tab,
here's how you add it.
You go to file,
you go to options on,
then in options,
you'll come to customize ribbon on.
You will see down here all of the main tabs and you can see here that we have developer and
it's not being ticked.
So if you have this,
just click developer and click OK,
and now you'll have the developer ribbon.
So we can do is click on the developer ribbon.
That's where we want to be.
Now let's go to our first recipe tab,
which is BLT on.
What we're gonna do is hit record,
Macro.
And we're just gonna leave that names macro one.
At the moment,
we're going to click.
OK,
now what we're gonna do is just click the index tab and then you can see this little button
down the bottom here,
which is Ah,
Square is to stop recording or equally,
you can just hit.
Stop recording there.
So let's just click.
Stop recording and they go.
We've just recorded our first macro.
So to get to your macro,
you can hit bowls and f 11.
And that will open this window,
which I'm just gonna have to dragon two shots so you can see it.
There me just one second.
Here we go.
This is the visual basic for applications Window on.
This is made up of three areas.
Your projects VB a project.
The properties of the sheet you are in on.
If we scroll down here,
you will see a new thing is being added,
which say's plus on a little box and model.
So we're just going to click on the plus on.
We just couldn't DoubleClick module one on.
There you go.
There is your first macro on what that macro does,
and it's called macro one.
Any feeling Green is just a comment on his non execute herbal code.
And that's indicated by this little apostrophe,
which means it's a remark on this is the good stuff.
This is the execute herbal code.
So what we're gonna do is just rename this.
You cannot have spaces in your names for your subroutines.
That's what a macro is.
A subroutine.
So what we're gonna say is go to my index on that will be the name of our macro.
Okay,
so now we have a macro.
What are we going to do with it?
Let me just click off there for a second.
We're gonna go to our B l t.
We're going to come back to our macro by hitting Bolt and F 11 and then we're gonna click
in here on the execute civil code,
which is the code in black.
We're gonna press this button the wrong,
the F five.
So what you can see at the moment in this sheet is we're on BLT on.
When we run this macro,
we go straight back to index,
which is exactly what we want to do.
OK,
so now we've recorded a macro.
How do we call it?
Well,
we have two ways of doing this.
So let me just come back to the sheet for a second,
right?
Okay,
so we're back in BLT on.
We have two ways of accessing a macro.
What we could do is go to Mac Rose,
which would bring up macros.
And there's our new one that we just created.
Go to my index on what we could do with this macro is select options on what we could do is
add keyboard shortcut key.
So that would be control Andi,
which ever key that you select.
Now,
be very careful when you selected these,
because there are some that are already pre defined,
such as control and be will be bold control and I will be italics.
So if you choose something that's commonly used,
the chances are when they use that uses this sheet.
So it is not you that using it.
They're gonna expect control on D B to make something bold.
But if you've signed control and be to this macro,
this macro is gonna execute.
So be very careful when you choose control shortcuts from there.
What I'm gonna choose,
I'm gonna country choose control and t I'm not entirely sure what control anti does of the
less just says Okay on,
then,
close that.
And now I'm in the sheet.
And if I hit control on t,
the macro executes air immediately.
Go back to index.
Now,
I don't think I can upload files with Macron's recorded,
but just follow those steps in the fall that you download and you'll be able to add this.
It will be nice and easy so we can go to Mac Rose,
choose it,
choose options and assign a keyboard shortcut there.
I'm just gonna delete that because I'm not entirely sure what Control and T does and click
Council.
Andi,
that's the way to access a macro through a keyboard shortcut.
The next thing we're going to do in the next lecture is have a look how we assign that to a
button.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.